---
layout: post
title: "…as a ransom for many"
comments: false
description: "Mar 20th 2019 Mass Reading Reflection"
keywords: "evil, servant, chalice, Lent"
---

[Wednesday of the Second Week of Lent](https://www.ewtn.com/daily-readings/?date=2019-03-20)

```
Jeremiah 18:18-20
Psalms 31:5-6, 14-16
Matthew 20:17-28 
```
When one puts in one’s best effort at doing good, one expects good rewards. The question is what exactly constitutes “good”. Today, the readings provide a pivotal point for us on this our Lenten journey because it challenges us to examine our expectations; what we imagine the rewards for repentance and transformation are because good and evil take on different meanings when dealing with God and everything we think we know gets turned on its head, “whoever will be great among you must be your servant”. 

I’m not sure this was what the Apostles were expecting when they heard the words, “Behold, we are going to Jerusalem…” Whatever the Disciples imagined was going to happen there, their minds were on their idea of glory and places of honour. Rather than worrying about the glory seats, their foremost thoughts should have been what Jesus’ “be delivered… and… condemn Him to death”. Who hears someone predicting his own demise and doesn’t even pause to ponder his words and question further about the source of this ominous prediction? 

Jesus is well aware that what is considered good is not always received as good: “I have heard the slander of the crowd…as they plan to take my life”, and that the converse is the case; what is considered evil is not always so because He says, “the Son of Man came…to give His life as a ransom for many”. Therefore, even though good was received as evil, and evil was going to be the repayment for this good, it turns out that the evil to be done as repayment is actually good. So it seems that the concept of good and evil depends on perspective; the eyes of the world or the eyes of God.   

Jeremiah slowly comes to this realisation as he prays to God, “Is evil a recompense for good? Yet, they have dug a pit for my life” It seems the greatest offence that one can commit in this life is to be or do good. “Remember how I stood before you to speak good for them…” There is nothing so offensive as to be brought into the light for one’s misdeeds and shortcomings. Not everybody in the dark wants to be brought to the light, and they certainly don’t want to be exposed either for their misdeeds or for their unwillingness to change. 

And so when Jesus says, “I am the Light of the world” (John 8:12), He is signing His own death warrant. And to the one who accepts this light is the promise of “the light of life” which is the acceptance to partake of the chalice which Jesus drinks. However, the prospect might not be so dismal if we consider that Jesus did not say there are no places of honour, only that they won’t be allocated the way we expect to be. Therefore, we need to recalibrate our expectation and trust in God’s definition of good and evil, “But as for me, I trust in you, O Lord: I say, ‘You are my God. My lot is in your hands, deliver me from the hands of my enemies and those who pursue me”. 
 
